NOTICE: THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS SENSITIVE DATA
CAUSE NO. XXXXXXXXXXX
 IN THE INTEREST OF
X.X. (TYPE INTITIALS OF CHILD HERE) MINOR CHILDREN
IN THE DISTRICT COURT XXXth JUDICIAL DISTRICT XXXXXXXX COUNTY, TEXAS
MOTION REQUESTING RESOLUTION OF ESSENTIAL PRE-TRIAL QUESTIONS OF LAW; MOTION RAISING OBJECTIONS; AND PLEA TO THE JURISDICTION
Comes now, [NAME], [RESPONDENT], and asks this court to answer the following questions of law as essential to justice and essential to the proper protection of substantive and procedural due process in this case; and asks this court to take judicial notice of the well- established substantive and procedural rights applicable in this case; and raises objections; and RESPONDENT raises a plea to this court’s subject matter jurisdiction.
RESPONDENT request this court to issue a protective order and quash any request by PETITIONER that this court take judicial state action in the absence of all substantive and procedural guarantees applicable to the rights at issue in these proceedings being afforded.
RESPONDENT asks this Court to resolve the following questions of law 1) whether the parties to this child custody dispute between fit parents are entitled to the substantive protections associated with the First, Fourth, and Fourteenth Amendment rights at issue in custody proceedings; 2) whether the parties are entitled to the procedural protections of the Eldridge
1

Balancing Test; 3) whether the parties are entitled to obtain a just, fair, equitable, and impartial adjudication of the rights of litigants under established principles of substantive law; 4) whether the parent-child association that litigants have with their child is an intimate and expressive close family association protected by the First Amendment; 5) whether Petitioner’s petition asks this court to impose time, place, or manner prior restraints on RESPONDENT’S speech, association, and worship with RESPONDENT’S children; 6) whether PETITIONER’S petition asks this court to impose content-based prior restraints; 7) whether the litigants’ parent-child association rights are individual rights independent of the marital status of the litigants or of the changes in the status; and 8) whether the child has standing to have his/her “best interests” or any other interests asserted by the judge or by any appointed officer in these proceedings.
ARGUMENT
Child Custody Litigation Burdens Fundamental Rights
The United States Supreme Court has held that subjecting a parent to child custody litigation is sufficiently burdensome on the right to be constitutionally significant. This holding establishes that this Court must establish a constitutionally compliant threshold condition that justifies the imposition of child custody litigation upon parents who enter these proceedings with full and equal fundamental rights to their child (Texas Family Code § 151.003. Limitation on State Agency Action - A state agency may not adopt rules or policies or take any other action that violates the fundamental right and duty of a parent to direct the upbringing of the parent's child.) and who must be presumed to be fit and who must be presumed to be acting in their own child’s best interest. (Texas Family Code § 153.003. No Discrimination Based on Sex or Marital Status - The court shall consider the qualifications of the parties without regard to their marital status in determining: (3) the terms and conditions of conservatorship and possession of and
2

access to the child. When the child’s parents are married to each other, and no prior court orders exist, each parent has equal rights to the child.)
JN-1: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the holding in Troxel v. Granville, 530 US 57, 75 (Supreme Court 2000), (the burden of litigating a domestic relations proceeding can itself be “so disruptive of the parent-child relationship that the constitutional
right of a custodial parent to make certain basic determinations for the child’s welfare becomes implicated.”)
JN-2: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the Courts many holdings that the state’s asserted interests may not be a broad sweeping interest such as a broad assertion of acting in the best interest of the child, but that the state’s asserted interest must be narrowly focused and asserted on the same plane of generality as the right being infringed. See Employment Division Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith, 494 US 872, 909, 910 (Supreme Court 1990), (It is not the State’s broad interest .... that must be weighed against the respondents’ claim, but the State’s narrow interest....)
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-1: RESPONENT objects to this Court proceeding with any request by PETITIONER to limit the rights or to impose duties upon RESPONDENT except where PETITIONER has justified such requests by demonstrating a narrow compelling state interest, that the statutes authorizing such requests are narrowly tailored, and by demonstrating that the relief requested is the least restrictive relief available to the Court sufficient to achieve the narrow compelling state interest.
3

OBJ-2: RESPONDENT objects to this Court proceeding with any request by respondent to limit the rights or to impose duties upon RESPONDENT based on a broadly articulated best interest of the child justification and objects to tall but the most narrowly tailored justification for proceeding with a request to infringe on RESPONDENT’S fundamental rights.
Palmore Standard
The United States Supreme Court has held in a child custody mediation case between fit parents’ incident to divorce that the trial court is a state actor acting under color of state law and consequently limited by the Federal Constitution, that a trial court’s viewpoint regarding the best interest of a child is insufficient justification to infringe fundamental rights, and that there are harms to children that are non-justiciable in custody cases. (Texas Family Code § 151.003. Limitation on State Agency Action - A state agency may not adopt rules or policies or take any other action that violates the fundamental right and duty of a parent to direct the upbringing of the parent's child.)
Harm to the child: Children faces all sorts of harm in life that is non-justiciable. Nothing inherent in these proceedings authorizes this Court to hold these litigants to a different standard of harm in the childcare than is applied to fit married parents. The parents’ constitutionally protected privacy choices regarding marriage and family living arrangements cannot be punished or burdened by presuming they can convey authority to this Court to create standards of harm that apply only to these litigants. The best interest of the child standard does not provide judicial authority to create ex post facto determinations of what constitutes harm to a child. The best interest of the child standard does not provide judicial authority for this Court to define harm based on this Court’s own viewpoint regarding matters of conscience in child-rearing.
4

JN-3: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of Palmore and its holdings as controlling precedent in this case which limits this Court’s discretion to infringe the constitutional rights of the litigants in this case, see Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 US 429, 432, 433 (Supreme Court 1984). (Footnote), (The actions of state courts and judicial officers in their official capacity have long been held to be state action governed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Shelly v. Kraemer... Exparte Virginia... “Public officials sworn to uphold the Constitution may not avoid a constitutional duty by bowing to the hypothetical effects of private racial prejudice that they
assume to be both widely and deeply held.”)1
JN-4: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of its statute as a state actor acting under the color of state law in these proceedings.
JN-5: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of United States Supreme Court Justices Thomas’s and Scalia’s statement in their concurrence to Grutter regarding the Palmore holding, see Grutter v Bollinger, 539 US 306, 352 (Supreme Court 2003), (concurrence Justice Thomas & Scalia) (An even greater governmental interest involves the sensitive role of courts in child custody determinations. In Palmore v. Sidoti... the Court held
that even the best interests of a child did not constitute a compelling state interest).2
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-3: RESPONDENT objects to any findings by this Court that Palmore is not controlling on this Court in this case.
1 Palmore came to the Court on petition for certiorari from a Florida appellate court where the Florida Supreme Court was constitutionally prohibited from hearing the case. The case was child custody medication case incident to divorce where the father sought to deprive the mother of custody because of certain harm to the child from living in a racially mixed household. The Court directly held that the Shelley precedent applies in child custody medication cases and consequently the family law trial court judge was a state actor taking state action under color of state law and was thus subject to the Fourteenth Amendment equal protection limitations. Both parents were found to be fit. The child’s welfare was held to be the controlling factor. The Court held that strict scrutiny applied and that the best interest of the child, although substantial, was not sufficiently compelling to justify infringement of the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees.
 5

2 Grutter was a racial discrimination case regarding the use of race as a factor in law school admissions. This case is no presented for context of the case, but to restate the holding in Palmore as understood by Justices Thomas and Scalia.
OBJ-4: RESPONDENT objects to any argument, finding, or the following of any policy (written or unwritten) holding that the Federal Constitution does not apply in this case or that it does not limit the Court’s Discretion in this case.
OBJ-5: RESPONDENT objects to the best interest of the child standard or legislative mandate being used by this Court as a predicate for infringe Constitutional rights or as a compelling state interests to support infringement of fundamental rights.
OBJ-6: RESPONDENT objects to any implied or other harm to the child incident to either parent’s marital choices being used as justification to interfere with the parent-child family privacy rights.
OBJ-7: RESPONDENT objects to any determination of harm to the child where specific written charges have not been properly served on RESPONDENT and where alleged harm has not been previously defined by state statute.
DOMESTIC RELATIONS
The United States Supreme Court has never held that a state may regulate domestic relations outside of constitutional constraints. In Zablocki, the Court specifically held that the state’s regulation of domestic relations is subject to constitutional limitations.
JN-6: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the Courts statement regarding this issue as being essential to the Courts holding in Zablocki.
JN-7: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-settled precedent
that individual decision regarding marriage—to marry, not to marry, and to divorce --- are
privacy rights protected at strict scrutiny --- choices which may not be punished by the state and
6

choices which may not establish standing or jurisdiction for a trial court to invade other protected family associations such as the parent-child association, see Zablocki v. Redhail, 434 US 374, 399 (Supreme Court 1978), (State power over domestic relations is not without constitutional limits. The Due Process Clause requires a showing of justification “when the
government intrudes on the choices concerning family living arrangements”).3
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-8: RESPONDENT objects to any authority to infringe constitutional rights exercised by this Court that is predicated on either parent’s choices regarding marriage or choices regarding divorce as an unconstitutional burden on or an unconstitutional punishment of the right of choice in these matters.
OBJ-9: RESPONDENT objects to a constitutionally protected choice exercised by either parent being used as a predicate authorizing this Court to invade RESPONDENT’S parent-child association with RESPONDENT’S own children or authorizing this Court the place any limitation on RESPONDENT’S and RESPONDENT’S children’s concomitant speech, association, or worship rights with each other upon.
3 Zablocki came to the Court on appeal from a federal district court as a class action case asserting equal protection rights related to marriage and the state infringing the right to marry because of unpaid child support obligations. The Court held that the decision to marry was a privacy right of the same type as the right to make decisions regarding child rearing, education, and family relationships. The Court held that as a privacy right, infringements of this right must survive strict scrutiny constitutional review. The Court held that “collection device rationales” for child support cannot justify infringement of fundamental rights. Therefore, infringements on the parent-child family relation right must also survive strict scrutiny. This case provides a discussion of the rights to dissolve a marriage as established in Boddie v. Connecticut, which is relevant here where the state imposes punishments upon parents of minor children absent strict scrutiny protections being applied where a parent of a minor child exercises the choice to dissolve a marriage with the child’s other parent or where the parents choose not to marry. What is of vital importance is that even though the Justices all acknowledge that domestic relations regulations was the province of the state, the Court was unanimous in its opinion that Federal Constitutional limitations apply to the state domestic relations regulation. The only dissent reasoned that the rational basis rather than the strict scrutiny was the appropriate degree of limitation on state action.
 7

OBJ-10: RESPONDENT objects to any limitation, direct or indirect, on RESPONDENT’S speech, association, or worship rights with RESPONDENT’S children or on the children’s concomitant rights except where the Court’s order is demonstrated to survive strict scrutiny review is demonstrated to be the least restrictive means available to the Court.
FIRST AMENDMENT
SCOTUS has held that family relationships are protected by the First Amendment because intimate associations cannot exist without expression of intimacy which necessarily makes these associations both intimate and expressive.
JN-8: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established precedent that close family associations are protected by the First Amendment as both intimate and expressive associations, see Board of Directors of Rotary Int’l v Rotary Club of Duarte, 481 US 537, 545 (Supreme Court 1987), (We have emphasized that the First Amendment protects those relationships, including family relationships, that presuppose “deep attachments and commitments to the necessarily few other individuals with whom one shares not only a special community of thoughts, experiences, and beliefs but also distinctively personal aspects of one’s
life.”)4
4 Rotary International comes to the Court on appeal from California State Appellate Court and presents a First Amendment question regarding the association right. The court distinguished between private and personal exclusive relationships such as family relationships which are protected by the First Amendment from inclusive public relationships, such as the association that Rotary International created, which are not protected by the First Amendment. This stands in direct contrast to the common family law belief that intimate family associations are protected only by the Fourteenth Amendment and not the First Amendment. Because the First Amendment does apply to parent-child associations, the full body of the First Amendment substantive rulings on associational rights must be applied to the parent-child association where they have not been applied in the past. The Court held, in
Rotary International, that “[i]mpediments to the exercise of one’s right to choose one’s associates” –such as a family court limiting the times, places, and manner of association--- “can violate the right of association protected by the First Amendment.” The Court, in coming to its holding in this case, analyzed whether the relationship being examined was one of stated opinions or firmly held beliefs --- such as a parent’s beliefs or viewpoint regarding the best interest of their own child --- which the Court stated would invoke expressive protections under the First
 8

JN-9: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the Courts holding that parents have a right and duty to educate their children where the exercise of this right and duty requires protected expression, see Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 US 39, 400 (Supreme Court 1923), (Corresponding to the right of control, it is the natural duty of the parent to give his children
education suitable to their station in life....)5 See also, Wisconsin v. Yoder, 406 US 205, 232 (Supreme Court 1972), (the duty to prepare the child for “additional obligations, “referred to
by the Court, must be read to include the inculcation of moral standards, religious beliefs, and elements of good citizenship.)6
Amendment. Consequently, this case holds that private family relationships are afforded First Amendment protections as exclusive or intimate associations where communication of intimacy is the essential component and are afforded First Amendment protections as expressive associations where the purpose of the association is to instill knowledge, beliefs, and viewpoints in the children as a parental right and duty.
5 Meyer was the first case where the Court established the right to family autonomy. The Court invalidated as unconstitutional a state law that prohibited teaching children in any language other than English. The Court held that the right to establish a home and to bring up children ins a liberty right protected by the term liberty. Meyer clearly presents a First Amendment speech restriction but was decided as a liberty issue and not a First Amendment right partly because the First Amendment had not yet been incorporated into the Fourteenth Amendment and applied to the states, see Gitlow v. New York, 268 US, 652 (1925). The Court stated in Meyer, “the legislature has attempted materially to interfere with the calling of modern language teachers, with the opportunities of pupils to acquire knowledge, and with the power of parents to control the education of their own.” The acquiring of knowledge has since been held to be protected by the First Amendment.
6 Yoder was a case where the state sought to mandate public education beyond the 8th grade and the Amish
community refused to allow their children to attend public school after 8th grade because of their higher right to educate their children in their own religion and their own way of life. The state sought to establish a compelling state interest by asserting a broad interest in educating children, but the Court held that broad assertions of a state interest --- such as the broad assertion of best interest of the child justification --- cannot serve to justify specific invasions of First Amendment rights, “Where fundamental claims of religious freedom are at stake, however, we cannot accept such a sweeping claim...”The state argued that its parens patriae authority authorized it to overrule the Amish parents --- just as courts today argue that parens patriae authority authorizes them to infringe on parental rights under a best interest of the child standard --- but the Court rejected the parens patriae argument. The Court addressed and rejected the state’s interest in promoting the best interest of the children as against the children’s parent’s right to determine the children’s religious upbringing. Just following the best interest of the child analysis the Court stated, “Indeed it seems clear that if the State is empowered, as parens patriae, to “save” a child from himself or his Amish parents by requiring an additional two years of compulsory formal high school education, the State will in large measure influence, if not determine, the religious future of the child.” The Court established the authority of the parent as primary over the authority of the state in child rearing. The Court’s ultimate holding rejected broad sweeping parens patriae authority --- such as best interest of the child--- and held that the state must make a particularized demonstration of its interest in the specific context of the instant case and show that it is compelling in the particular context.
 9

JN-10: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that this Court’s child custody and possession order will if not determine the child’s future in many matters of
conscience.7
JN-11: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that the expressive element of the parent-child association, the right of the parent to teach and the right of the child to receive education, is protected at strict scrutiny, see Buckley v. Valeo, 424 US 1 (Supreme Court 1976), (In considering this provision we must apply the same strict scrutiny, for the right of associational privacy developed in NAACP v. Alabama derives from the rights of the organization’s members to advocate their personal points of view in the most effective way.)
TIME, PLACE, AND MANNER PRIOR RESTRAINTS
Any child custody or child possession order between two fit parents will necessarily be a limit on the times, the places, and the manner in which either parent may speak, associate, and worship with their child and will be a limit on the child’s concomitant rights. The fact that all such orders impose this restraint does not and cannot convey unbridled discretion upon a trial court to impose its own viewpoint regarding the child’s best interest as justiciable resolution to the parents’ conflict of full and equal parental rights apart from the other parent. No legislative mandate can obviate the constitutional guarantees that must be afforded these rights.
RESPONDENT argues that where the trial court imposes prior restraints upon the times, places, and manner in which RESPONDENT and the children may share “a special community
of thoughts, experiences, and beliefs but also distinctively personal aspects of one’s life”8 the
7 Yoder, supra at 232 “Indeed it seems clear that if the State is empowered, as parens patriae, to “save” a child from himself or his Amish parents by requiring an additional two years of compulsory formal high school education, the State will in large measure influence, if not determine, the religious future of the child.”
8 Roberts v. United States Jaycees, 468 US 609, 620 (Supreme Court 1984). 10

trial court is restraining the First Amendment protected speech which demands, at a minimum, enhanced scrutiny substantive protections and where the justification for these restraints is content or viewpoint-based demands strict scrutiny protections.
JN-12: RESPONDENT requests this court take judicial notice of the undisputable fact that a child custody or possession order by this court regulating how each fit parent in this suit may exercise rights over and possession of the child, even and equal 50/50 order is by, necessity a limitation, on the times, the places, and the manner in which either parent may speak with, associate with, and worship with their children.
JN-13: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established law that content neutral time, place, and manner restraints on First Amendment protected activities
must survive enhanced scrutiny review with appropriate ends/means balancing.9
JN-14: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the Court’s more recent holdings regarding the specific requirements of enhanced scrutiny in these matters particularly where the state asserts a necessity in exercising “broad” powers such as exercising broad authority under the best interest of the child standard, see Packingham v. North Carolina, (Supreme Court 2017), (Even making the assumption that the statute is content neutral and thus subject to intermediate scrutiny, the provision cannot stand. In order to survive intermediate scrutiny, a law must be “narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest.” .... In other words, the law must not “burden substantially more speech than is necessary to further the governments legitimate interests.” ...response from the State is that the law must be this broad to
9 Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 US 781, 804 (Supreme Court 1989), (A time, place, and manner regulation of expression must be content neutral, serve a significant government interest, be narrowly tailored to serve the interest, and leave open ample alternative channels of communication.)
 11

serve its preventative purpose ... The State has not, however, met its burden to show this this sweeping law is necessary or legitimate to serve that purpose.)
RESPONDENT argues that where either parent asks this Court to make a best interest determination, to evaluate the relative value of either parent’s speech with the child, to evaluate the relative value of either parent’s association with the child, to evaluate the relative value of either parent’s lawful and constitutionally protected parental choices that parent is asking the Court to impose a content-based time, place, or manner restriction on First Amendment protected activities that constitutes viewpoint discrimination.
JN-15: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established law that content-based time, place, and manner restraints on the First Amendment protected activities must survive strict scrutiny review and must survive least restrictive means review.
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-11: RESPONDENT objects to any request by PETITIONER for this Court to impose limitations on the parent-child association as a violation of rights protected by the First Amendment.
OBJ-12: RESPONDENT objects to any request by PETITIONER for this Court to impose limitations on the parent-child association except where the full array of substantive guarantees afforded First Amendment rights have been afforded to the parties by the trial court.
OBJ-13: RESPONDENT objects to any request by PETITIONER to this Court asking this Court to use state authority under color of state law to impose prior restraints on RESPONDENT’S AND RESPONDENT’S children’s concomitant rights except where PETITIONER has provided the Court with everything necessary to demonstrate that the Court’s
12

order can survive strict scrutiny review and that the requested orders are the least restrictive option available to the Court, see Buckley, supra.
OBJ-14: RESPONDENT objects to any child custody or possession orders issued by this Court, either temporary or permanent orders, which have not been demonstrated to survive strict scrutiny review and which have not been demonstrated to be the least restrictive means available to the Court.
CENSORSHIP
RESPONDENT argues that the child custody or possession orders that do not fully and equally protect each parent’s full and equal rights to their child, inherently and by necessity, elevate one parent’s speech, association, and worship rights and authority over the other parent’s. Such orders constitute censorship of parent-child speech, association, and worship.
RESPONDENT argues that where the state statues regulating these proceedings provide for default or standard custody and possession orders that fail to fully and equally respect the full and equal rights of each fit parent and of the child to those parents, those statutes create a de facto censorship scheme.
RESPONDENT argues that where the state’s scheme vests this trial Court with broad discretion to determine which parent’s speech, association, and worship will be elevated over the other parent’s without the necessity of affording the full array of substantive guarantees necessary to overcome constitutional prohibition against state censorship schemes, this Court has been vested by the legislature with unbridled discretion to censor intimate and expressive close family speech, association, and worship.
13

RESPONDENT argues that where this Court accepts this unbridled discretion and fails to provide the non-discretionary substantive guarantees necessary to constitutionally validate this discretion, this Court exercises unbridled discretion to censor intimate and expressive close family speech, association, and worship.
JN-16: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well- established constitutional law holding that the mere existence of unbridled discretion to infringe rights protected by the First Amendment is unconstitutional on its face whether or
not the official exercises that discretion.10
RESPONDENT asks this Court to exercise its discretion and hold that the censorship scheme established by the state to censor parent-child speech, association, and worship in this proceeding is unconstitutional on its face.
In the alternative, RESPONDENT asks this Court to exercise its non-discretionary judicial duty to afford all substantive and procedural guarantees necessary to ensure that his
10Intern. Soc. For Krishna Consciousness v. Eaves, 601 F. 2d 809, 823 (5th Circuit 1979), (By facially invalidating excessively broad grants of discretion, then, the Court has revealed that the problem is not potential abuses but the very existence of broad, censorial power.): Southeastern Promotions Ltd v. Conrad, 420 US 546, 559, 560
(Supreme Court 1975), (The settled rule is that a system of prior restraint “avoids constitutional infirmity only if it takes place under procedural safeguards designed to obviate the dangers of a censorship system.”); Kent v. United States, 383 US 541, 552-554 (Supreme Court 1966), (the statute contemplates that the Juvenile Court should have considerable latitude ... But this latitude is not complete. At the outset, it assumes procedural regularity sufficient in the particular circumstances to satisfy the basic requirements of due process and fairness, as well as compliance with statutory requirement of a “full investigation.” ... The statute gives the Juvenile Court a substantial degree of discretion ... It does not confer upon the Juvenile Court a license for arbitrary procedure.): San Francisco Arts & Athletes, Inc. v. United States Olympic Comm., 483 US 522, 568 (Supreme Court 1987) (dissent), (this broad discretion creates the potential for significant suppression of protected speech. “[A] law subjecting the exercise of First Amendment freedoms to the prior restraint of a license, with narrow, objective, and definite standards to guide the licensing authority, is unconstitutional.” ... This broad discretion, with its potential for abuse, also renders § 110 unconstitutionally overbroad on its face.);
Prime Media, Inc. v. City of Brentwood, 485 F. 3d 343, 351 (6thCircuit 2007), (“when a licensing statue allegedly vests unbridled discretion in a government official over whether to permit or deny expressive activity, one who is subjected to the law may challenge it facially without the necessity of applying for, and being denied, a license.” ... Such a licensing requirement “constitutes a prior restraint and may result in censorship.” ... Thus, the prior restraint of a licensing provision coupled with unbridled discretion itself amounts to an actual injury.);
 14

Court’s orders in these proceedings are demonstrated to avoid the exercise of unbridled discretion in regulating the First Amendment rights at issue in these proceedings.
RESPONDENT will attest that it is RESPONDENT’S belief that where this Court protects the full and equal rights of each parent in these proceedings, issues orders that provide for 50/50 custody and possession, and where this Court only overrules parental choices upon the demonstration of a compelling justification, upon the application of least restrictive means, and without unnecessarily imposing the trial court’s viewpoint in these matters this court will be providing the foundation for demonstrating that the Court has not acted with unbridled discretion.
CHILD SUPPORT AS SPEECH
It is well-established that money spent in support of speech is protected as speech and that where the state limits a person’s ability to spend money in support of speech, the state limits speech.
RESPONDENT argues that consequently, where the state imposes child-support obligations which exceed the minimum amount necessary to meet the child’s minimum basic needs the state is enhancing the discretionary speech of one parent and diminishing the discretionary speech of the other parent. This condition is particularly acute with teenagers where a parent’s control over the child’s actions is limited. Many times, the only influence a parent will have over a child to compel the child to listen to the speech is the child’s need for money to fund teenage activities. Where the state establishes one parent with control over the money for the child’s discretionary needs, the state implements a censorship scheme.
15

JN-17: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the use of money to promote or limit speech as a means of censorship11 and to take judicial notice of the fact
that RESPONDENT is arguing that child support awards under the state’s statutes and guidelines serve as a censorship scheme that is unconstitutional on its face where it exceeds an amount sufficient to meet the basic minimum needs of the child.
JN-18: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that an equal 50/50 award of custody and possession between fit parents is a least restrictive alternative available to the Court that ensures that the child will be adequately care for, thus depriving the Court of a compelling justification for the award of child support and depriving the Court of a means/end justification for the award of child support.
JN-19: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that if the amount the state pays to foster parents for the care of children who are in the state’s care is not sufficient to meet the minimum reasonable needs of the children then the state itself is failing to meet the minimum reasonable needs of the child.
JN-20: RESPONDENT asks this Court to recognize the natural limit on the duty of care a state may impose on a parent as that level where the support imposed begins to enhance or restrict discretionary speech and that the duty of care is equally applicable to all fit parents.
11Citizens United v. Federal Election Com’n, 130 S. Ct. 876, 904, 905, 908 (Supreme Court 2010), ([T]he concept that government may restrict the speech of some elements of our society in order to enhance the relative voice of others is wholly foreign to the First Amendment... All speakers ... use money amassed from the economic marketplace to fund their speech. The First Amendment protects the resulting speech... under the Government’s reasoning, wealthy media corporations could have their voices diminished to put them on par with other media entities. There is not precedent for permitting this under the First Amendment.... When the Government seeks to use its full power... to command where a person may get his or her information or what distrusted source he or she may not hear, it uses censorship to control thought. This is unlawful. The First Amendment confirms the freedom to think for ourselves.)
 16

JN-21: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice than in addition to the basic child support scheme constituting censorship an income-based aware of child support is also a distinct censorship scheme that censors speech based on the income of the speaker which creates two unequal classes of child, on subject to censorship and the other not subject to censorship.
JN-22: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that awards of child support in these proceedings, that differ from the standard of care applicable to children whose parents have not been subject to child custody proceedings, create an unequal standard of care where one class of child is entitled to greater standards of care than other children and establishes the state as the arbiter and censor of how that discretionary care is provided as a matter of censorship.
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-15: RESPONDENT objects to any award of child support that has not survived strict scrutiny constitutional review and that has not been demonstrated to be the least restrictive means available to the Court.
OBJ-16: RESPONDENT objects to any award of child support above that level necessary to meet the child’s basic minimum needs, not to exceed what the state pays for foster care, as a censorship scheme.
THE STATES PURPOSE
It is well-established that where the state asserts a legitimate compelling interest, the state’s statutes must fall if they fail to accomplish that stated purpose.12
12Smith v. Daily Mail Publishing Co. 443 US 97, 104, 105 (Supreme Court 1979), (the reasoning of Davis that the constitutional right must prevail over the state’s interest in protecting juveniles applies with equal force here...
Thus, even assuming the statute served a state interest of the highest order, it does not accomplish its stated purpose.)
 17

Where the state asserts that its interests in protecting the best interest of the child should prevail over the Constitutional rights of the parents, the state must demonstrate that its actions achieve the stated purpose. This places a burden on the state to prove that its viewpoint on the child’s best interest is “better” than either parent’s viewpoint, which is an impossible burden for the state to meet.
Further, where the child has First Amendment Constitutional rights that are infringed by the Trial Court’s orders absent full substantive and procedural guarantees, the state necessarily fails in its stated purpose of protecting the best interests of the child because those orders irreparably injure the child. Irreparable injury caused by a trial court judge absent provision of all applicable constitutional guarantees cannot possibly be in the “best” interest of the child.
JN-23: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice the well-established constitutional precedent that even small infringements on the First Amendment rights constitutes irreparable injury, see Elrod v. Burns, 427 US 347, 373, 374 (Supreme Court 1976), (The loss of First Amendment freedoms, for even minimal periods of time, unquestionably constitutes irreparable injury.)
JN-24: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that, as a state actor, this Court is prohibited from infringing the Constitutional rights of the child as a super-parent and must instead comply with all applicable constitution guarantees before directly or indirectly infringing the child’s constitutional rights.
JN-25: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the state’s burden of justifying that its infringements of parental rights under a best interest of the child standard is actually “best” for the child.
18

JN-26: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that the judge in this case is the only state actor in this case, or alternatively is the state actor begin asked to take action and consequently that it is the judge who must meet this burden of proof.
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-17: RESPONDENT objects to this Court exceeding its judicial mandate to provide justiciable resolution to the conflict of rights between the fit parents and acting as a super-parent exercising power the trial court does not legitimately have to make parenting decisions for the child or to impose the trial court’s viewpoint on the lawful parental decisions of RESPONDENT.
OBJ-18: RESPONDENT objects to this Court classifying any infringement, direct or indirect, of the child’s First Amendment rights as being the child’s best interest.
OBJ-19: RESPONDENT objects to any orders limiting, directly or indirectly, any constitutional rights of the child under a best interest of the child standard where this Court fails to demonstrate in the record how that infringement of constitutional rights achieves that state’s stated purpose of acting in the best interest of the child.
Neutral and Unbiased Decision-Maker
Where this court makes a presumption that it will act in the best interest of the child, who is a non-party to the suit and who lacks standing to have their interests asserted in this suit, RESPONDENT asks this court to demonstrate how this Court will be a neutral and unbiased decision-maker adjudicating the conflict of fundamental rights between litigants.
RESPONDENT argues that where this court pre-determines that it will act in the best interest of the child and that this court has broad discretion to limit the constitutional rights of the
19

litigants based on its own viewpoint of the best interest of the child, this court is acting as a child advocate. Where the court acts as a child advocate without a prior impartial adjudication that the interests of a parent and child diverge, the court is taking an execute, non-judicial action that deprives it of constitutionally mandated neutrality and impartiality regarding the conflict between parties.
Where the trial court is a state actor and assumes the statutorily imposed duty to act in the child’s best interest, this action cannot be purely an action between private parties. This action is between the parties and the state’s appointed child advocate who in this case is the trial court judge. Consequently, RESPONDENT argues that the parties have been deprived of their due process right to a neutral and unbiased decision-maker in a judicial proceeding.
JN-27: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established constitutional law entitling the parties to a neutral and impartial judicial decision-maker in these
proceedings.13
JN-28: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the alleged conflict of interest created between this Court’s acceptance of the legislative mandate to act in the best interest of the child and this Court’s constitutional judicial duty to be a neutral and impartial judicial decision-maker in these proceedings.
13 Marshall v. Jerrico Inc., 446 US 238, 242 (Supreme Court 1980), (The Due Process Clause entitles a person to an impartial and disinterested tribunal in both civil and criminal cases... [neutrality] preserves both the appearance and reality of fairness... by ensuring that no person will be deprived of his interests in the absence of a proceeding in which he may be present his case with assurance that the arbiter is not predisposed to find against him.)
 20

OBJECTIONS
OBJ-20: RESPONDENT objects to the best interest of the child standard being applied as a legitimate standard sufficient to resolve the judicial conflict of rights between parties in this suite because acting in the interest of a third party cannot resolve the dispute between the parties and because such action exceeds the jurisdiction of a judicial officer whose authority derives solely from the conflict between the parties.
OBJ-21: RESPONDENT objects to this Court acting in the best interest of the child as a violation of this Court’s constitutional duty to remain a neutral and unbiased judicial decision- maker in these proceedings.
BALANCING TEST
SCOTUS has held many times in many different contexts including the family law context that when a party challenges the adequacy of the state’s civil procedures in a proceeding that imposes substantial loss of rights protected by or through the Fourteenth
Amendment the state must demonstrate a balancing of a specific set of factors.14
JN-29: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that RESPONDENENT challenges the procedures standardly applied in child custody proceedings between fit parents being applied in this case because 1) these procedures infringe fundamental rights absent substantive guarantees, 2) unconstitutionally place the burden of proof upon those
14Parhamv v. JR, 442 US 584, 599, 600, 617, 618 (Supreme Court 1979), (The parties agree that our prior holdings have set out to general approach for testing challenged state procedures under a due process claim. Assuming the existence of a protectible property or liberty interest, the Court has required a blanching of a number of factors... Normally, however, since this interest is inextricably linked with them parent’s interest in and obligation for the welfare and health of the child, the private interest at stake is a combination of the child’s and parents’ concerns...
While the determination of what process is due varies somewhat when the state, rather than a natural parent, makes the request for commitment, we conclude that the differences in the two situations do not justify requiring different procedures.
 21

facing loss of fundamental rights, 3) fail to acknowledge the substantive rights at issue in the proceedings, 4) fail to establish the substantive guarantees that apply, 5) fail to express the state’s interest on the same plane of generality as the loss of rights imposed, 6) apply a justification to deprive fundamental rights that SCOTUS has held is insufficiently compelling to justify infringement of Fourteenth Amendment rights, 7) fail to adequately identify the negative impact of an erroneous order, 8) fail to adequately protect against the risk of an erroneous order, and 9) that fail to apply a sufficiently strong standard of evidence.
JN-30: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that RESPONDENT argues that these proceedings cannot be procedurally fair absent a demonstrated application of the Matthews Balancing Test and objects to any further limitation on constitutional rights absent a
full Mathews Balancing Test hearing demonstrated in the record.15
JN-31: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the federal public policy that it is always in the public interest to prevent the violation of a party’s constitutional right16
15Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 US 319, 333, 348, 349 (Supreme Court 1976); Wilkonson v. Austin, 545 US 209, 221, 224, 225 (Supreme Court 2005); Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 US 1, 10 (Supreme Court 1991); Washington v. Harper, 494, US 210, 229 (Supreme Court 1990); Cleveland Board of Education v. Loudermill, 470 US 532, 538, 541 (Supreme Court 1985); Hewitt v. Helms, 459 US 460, 473 (Supreme Court 1983); Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co.,
455 US 422, 433 (Supreme Court 1982); Santosky v. Kramer, 455 US 745, 753 (Supreme Court 1982); Vitek v. Jones,
445 US 480, 491 (Supreme Court 1980); Parham v. JR, 442 US 584, 617, 618 (Supreme Court 1979); Mackey v. Montrym, 443 US 1, 10 (Supreme Court 1979); Board of Curators of Univ. of Mo. V. Horowitz, 435 US 78, 99, 100 (Supreme Court 1978); Smith v. Organization of Foster Families For Equality & Reform, 431 US 816, 847 (Supreme Court 1977); Hortonville Joint School Dist. No. 1 v. Hortonville Ed. Assn., 426 US 482, 494 (Supreme Court 1976); Goss v. Lopez, 419 US 565, 577, 578 (Supreme Court 1975); Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 US 471, 481 (Supreme Court 1972).
16Dennis v. United States, 339 US 162, 168 (Supreme Court 1950), (In exercising its discretion, the trial court must be zealous to protect the rights of an accused.); Cate v. Oldham, 707 F. 2d 1176, 1190 (11th Circuit 1983), (The strong
public interest in protecting First Amendment values); Melendres v. Arpaio, 695 F. 3d 990, 1002 (9th Circuit 2012), (it is always in the public interest to prevent the violation of a party’s constitutional rights.); International Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump, (4th Circuit 2017), upholding the Constitution undeniably promotes public interest... “[U]pholding constitutional rights surely serves the public interest.” ...”[I]t is always in the public interest to prevent the violation of a
party’s constitutional.” ... “[T]he public as a whole has a significant interest in ensuring... protection of First Amendment liberties.” ...These cases recognize that when we protect the constitution rights of the few, it inures to the benefit of all.); Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier, 760
 22

and that where PETITIONER is asking this Court to exercise state power to infringe RESPONDENT’S civil rights, this Court has a constitutional and public policy duty to protect
those civil rights.17
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-22: RESPONDENT objects to any deprivation of rights protected by or through the Fourteenth Amendment by this Court absent the application of a Mathews Balancing Test.
OBJ-23: RESPONDENT objects to any deprivation of rights protected by or through the Fourteenth Amendment by this court absent the application of a full constitutional procedural rights analysis.
OBJ-24: RESPONDENT objects to any deprivation of rights protected by or through the Fourteenth Amendment by this court absent the application of a full constitutional substantive rights analysis.
F. 3d 448, 458 (5th Circuit 2014), (footnote), (“[I]t is always in the public interest to prevent the violation of a party’s constitutional rights.”); Jones v. Caruso, 569 F. 3d 258, 278 (6th Circuit 2009), (the public as a whole has a significant interest in ensuring equal protection of the laws and protection of First Amendment liberties)
17Zinermon v. Burch, 494 US 113, 135 (Supreme Court 1990), (because petitioners had state authority to deprive persons of liberty, the Constitution imposed on them the State’s concomitant duty to see that no deprivation occurs without adequate procedural protections.); Covington & Lexington Turnpike Road Co. v. Sandford, 164 US 578, 593 (Supreme Court 1896), (it is within the scope of judicial power and a part of judicial duty to restrain anything which... operates to deny to the owners of property ... that equal protection which is the constitutional right of all owners of other property. There is nothing new or strange in this. It has always been a part of the judicial function to determine whether the act of one party (whether that party be a single individual, an organized body or the public as a while) operates to divest the other of any rights of person or property.); Romeo v. Youngberg, 644 F. 2d 147, 165 (Court of
Appeals, 3rd Circuit 1980), (appropriate deference ... does not diminish the judicial duty to safeguard liberty interests... A court performs two functions with respect to such a right: ... it places limits on the state’s power to impose ... on those who do not desire it. A right ... does not create a corresponding duty to submit ... such a simple equation would sanction unacceptable invasions of personal autonomy.)
 23

OBJ-25: RESPONDENT objects to any deprivation of rights protected by or through the Fourteenth Amendment by this court absent the application of a full constitutional equal protection rights analysis.
ADJUDICATION RIGHTS
The controversy in these proceedings is the fact that each parent enters these proceedings with full and equal parental rights to the same child and the parties seek to exercise those rights independently and separately.
The controversy in these proceedings cannot be a controversy over each parent’s viewpoint regarding the best interest of the child nor can it be controversy between the parents’ viewpoints and the state’s viewpoint regarding the best interest of the child, nor can it be controversy over which parent’s viewpoint regarding the child’s best interest is the state’s preferred viewpoint as these controversies are non-justiciable and this Court lacks subject-matter jurisdiction as a matter of constitutional law to resolve these controversies regardless of what
any state mandate to the contrary may provide.18
First, the child does not have a constitutional right to assert their best interest.19
Second, the child lacks standing to be a party to the case and therefore cannot assert its own interests or have the state assert its interests on its behalf. Where the parents must be presumed by constitutional mandate to be making decisions that are in the child’s best interest,
18Article VI, United States Constitution, the supremacy clause, “This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.”
19Reno v. Flores, 507 US 292, 305 (Supreme Court 1993), ([best interest] is a policy judgement rather than a constitutional imperative.)
 24

there can be no controversy between either parent and the child until the state overcomes these presumptions in the record.
Third, the Constitution demands that parents be presumed fit and that fit parents be presumed to acting in their child’s best interest,20 the state’s interest in caring for the child is
de minimis where the parents are fit,21 and SCOTUS has held that the state cannot assert a
child’s interests until the state has proven that the interests of parent and child have diverged.22
These issues go directly to the necessity of a controversy between a parent and a child before the state may pursue a child’s best interest.
While some may argue that these presumptions have only previously been applied in cases where the state is a party and not between private parties or between fit parents, that argument fails:
Troxel was a case between private parties where the Court based its holding against state action on these parental presumptions.23 In Troxel, the Court held that disagreements between a
20Troxel v. Granville, 530 US 57, 65, 87 (Supreme Court 2000), (there is a presumption that fit parents act in the best interests of their children... Our cases leave no doubt that parents have a fundamental liberty interest in caring for and guiding their children, and a corresponding private interest – absent exceptional circumstances – in doing so without undue interference of strangers to them and to their child.)
21Stanley v. Illinois, 405 US 645, 657, 658 (Supreme Court 1972), (The State’s interest in care for Stanley’s children is de minimis if Stanley is shown to be a fit father. It insists on presuming rather than proving Stanley’s unfitness solely because it is more convenient to presume than to prove.)
22Santosky v. Kramer, 455 US 745, 759 (Supreme Court 1982), (The State may not presume, at factfinding stage of parental rights termination proceeding, that interests of parent and child diverge.)
23Troxel v. Granville, 530 US 57, 68, 69, 70 (Supreme Court 2000), (the record reveals that the Superior Court’s order was based on precisely the type of mere disagreement we have just described and nothing more. The
Superior Court’s order was not founded on any special factors that might justify the State’s interference with Granville’s fundamental right to make decision concerning the rearing of her two daughters... The decisional frame work employed by the Superior Court directly contravened the traditional presumption that a fit parent will act in the best interest of his or her child... In that respect, the court’s presumption failed to provide any protections for Granville’s fundamental constitutional right to make decisions concerning the rearing of her own daughters.)
 25

fit parent and a trial court judge regarding private constitutionally protected choices in child- rearing cannot justify infringement of fundamental parental choices because these choices must be presumed to be valid, lawful, and in the child’s best interest.
Palmore, supra was a custody modification case between fit parents where the Court held that the state could not presume that harm to a child, that was objectively likely to occur as a result of parental choices or privacy choices, was the type of harm that is judicially remediable. The mother’s choices regarding marriage were protected and presumed to be in the child’s best interest irrespective of the trial court’s viewpoint on the matter. Here the parental presumptions were applied in a custody modification case between two fit parents.
Fourth, a parent’s determination of a child’s best interest is so deeply dependent upon that parent’s viewpoints and beliefs on matters of conscience such as the importance of religion, of politics, of freedom, of democracy, of education, of service to society, of a moral perspective, of the importance of family, of dating, of sex, of sexual expression, of roles of the sexes, of how children should dress, of how they should behave, etc. that the best interest determination can only be considered a determination of matters of conscience.
The sole purpose of the judiciary is to determine the rights of parties. Formulating, pursuing, or vindicating the state’s best interest of the child policy for a particular child is an executive duty that may not be constitutionally performed by the judiciary.
JN-32: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established constitutional precedent that it is the trial court’s sole and only duty to adjudicate the rights of the parties in the narrow context of the conflict of rights between parties and not to vindicate the state’s policy of acting in the state’s viewpoint of what is in the child’s best interest, see Lujan v.
26

Defenders of Wildlife, 504 US 555, 576 (Supreme Court 1992), (“The province of the court, “as Chief Justice Marshall said... “is, solely, to decide on the rights of individuals.” Vindicating the public interest (including the public interest in Government observance of the Constitution and laws) is the function of Congress and the Chief Executive.)
JN-33: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that it is the trial court’s duty, even to act sus sponte, in establishing and validating its own subject matter jurisdiction, not only in terms of jurisdiction granted the court by the legislature, but also in terms of the jurisdiction the state and federal Constitutions deny the court even in the face of legislative grant to the contrary.
JN-34: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of well-established fact of constitutional law that parties are entitled to a just, fair, equitable and impartial adjudication of
the rights of litigants under established principles of substantive law.24
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-26: RESPONDENT objects to this Court exercising subject matter jurisdiction in a manner that asserts or vindicates the interests of a third party who lacks standing to be a party to this suit even where that third party is a child who has an interest in the outcome of the proceedings.
OBJ-27: RESPONDENT objects to this Court presuming authority to infringe fundamental rights absent full adjudication of the rights at issue in these proceedings whether acting under a best interest of the child standard or any other standard.
24Texas State Constitution and Federal Constitution
27

OBJ-28: RESPONDENT objects to this Court taking dispositional actions of any kind until it has demonstrated its constitutional authority to take those actions through a just, fair, equitable and impartial adjudication of the rights of litigants under established principles of substantive law.
RIGHTS ARE INDIVIDUAL
It is well-established that the rights protected by and through the Fourteenth Amendment are individual rights.25
It is well-established that a parent’s right to custody of their own child is a personal right.26
It is well-established that the associational rights of parents and their minor children cannot be dependent upon the marital status of the child’s parents because bastardy laws have been held to be invidious.
It is well-established that children cannot be punished for the sins of their parents whether that sin is to procreate outside of wedlock or whether that sin is for parents with minor children
 25Shelly v. Kraemer, 334 US 1, 22 (Supreme Court 1948), (The rights created by the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment are, by its terms, guaranteed to the individual. The rights established are personal rights.)
26May v. Anderson, 345 US 528, 534 (Supreme Court 1953), (In the instant case, we recognize that a mother’s right to custody of her children is a personal right entitled to at least as much protection as her right to alimony.)
28

to divorce.27 Therefore, the concomitant fundamental rights of the child28 in these proceedings
cannot be infringed any more than the fundamental rights of the parents can be infringed as a consequence of the parents making the constitutionally protected choice regarding marriage – to
never marry or divorce.29 These choices are individually constitutionally protected privacy
choices and the rights of parents and children to have associations with each other are individual rights not a right conveyed through marriage.
JN-35: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the well-established constitutional fact that choices by parents of minor children either not to marry or to divorce do not provide state justification to infringe the individual fundamental rights of parent or child.
27Levy v. Louisiana, 391 US 68, 72 (Supreme Court 1968), (We conclude that it is invidious to discriminate against them when no action, conduct, or demeanor of theirs is possibly relevant to the harm that was done the mother.); Weber v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 406 US 164, 175 (Supreme Court 1972), (The status of illegitimacy has expressed through the ages society’s condemnation of irresponsible liaisons beyond the bonds of marriage. But visiting this condemnation on the head of an infant is illogical and unjust. Moreover, imposing disabilities on the illegitimate child is contrary to the basic concept of our system that legal burdens should bear some relationship to individual responsibility or wrongdoing.)
28Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 US 158, 165, 166 (Supreme Court 1944), (The rights of children to exercise their religion, and of the parents to give them religious training and to encourage them in the practice of religious belief, as against preponderant sentiment and assertion of state power voicing it, have had recognition here... this Court had sustained the parent’s authority to provide religious with secular schooling, and the child’s right to receive it, as against the state’s requirement of attendance at public schools... children’s rights to receive teaching in languages other than the nation’s common tongue were guarded against the state’s encroachment. It is cardial with us that the custody, are and nurture of the child reside firs in the parents, whose primary function and freedom include preparation for obligations the state can neither supply nor hinder... And it is in recognition of this that these decisions have respected the private realm of family life which the state cannot enter.); Fiallo v. Bell,
430 US 787, 810 (Supreme Court 1977), (dissent), (The right to live together as a family belongs to both the child who seeks to bring in his or her father and the father who seeks the entrance of his child.) Wooley v.City of Baton Rouge,
211 F. 3d 913, 923 (5th Circuit 2000), (Because a child’s right to family integrity is concomitant to that of a parent, we
define the scope of Jordan’s rights in this context with reference to his mother’s rights. (footnote)
Duchense, 566 F. 2d at 825; Bennett v. Town of Riverhead, 940 F. Supp. 481, 488-89 (E.D.N.Y. 1996) (“This interest is reciprocal in that it belongs to the children as much as it does to parents”).)
29Harman v. Forssenius, 380 US 528, 540 (Supreme Court 1965), (It has long been established that a State may not impose a penalty upon those who exercise a right guaranteed by the Constitution. ...”Constitutional rights would be of little value if they could be... indirectly denied, “...or” manipulated out of existence.”); MLB v. SLJ, 519 US 102, 114, 115 (Supreme Court 1996), (“[o]n many associational interests that surround the establishment and dissolution of th[e] [marital] relationship.”)
 29

OBJECTIONS
OBJ-29: RESPONDENT objects to constitutionally protected privacy choices regarding marriage exercised by parents of minor children being used as justification for state proceedings that infringe Constitutional rights.
OBJ-30: RESPONDENT objects to subject matter jurisdiction being established based on the predicate of divorce between parents of minor children or based on those parents choosing not to be married or remain married.
OBJ-31: RESPONDENT objects to any judicial or legislative presumptions that the rights of parents depend in any way upon a marriage between the child’s parents or that those individual rights are in any way diminished when parents divorce.
OBJ-32: RESPONDENT objects to this Court discriminating against RESPONDENT OR RESPONDENT’S children as a consequence of either parent’s marital choices as discrimination based upon marital status or changes in marital status in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
OBJECTION TO EXISTING STATE PRECEDENT
Family law courts cite extensive state precedent holding that best interest is a proper and feasible criterion for determining custody between fit parents based on the obiter dicta in Reno. However, obiter dicta cannot support a legal theory especially whereas here the overwhelming weight of Court precedent weighs against the dicta.
None of the existing state precedent has included substantive rights analysis where the custody or possession order is challenged under First Amendment content based prior restraints
30

on free speech where the Court has held that best interest of the child is not compelling and where the precedent did not include a Mathews Balancing Test of the process due where the rights at issue are protected by the First Amendment at strict scrutiny.
JN-36: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of the fact that the following phrase from Reno is obiter dicta having no controlling or persuasive impacts on these proceedings Reno v. Flores, 507 US 292, 303, 304 (Supreme Court 199), (“The best interests of the child,” a venerable phrase familiar from divorce proceedings, is a proper and feasible criterion for making the decision as to which of the two parents will be accorded custody.)
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-33: RESPONDENT objects to the application of any state precedent regarding this Court’s best interest of the child discretion where the precedent failed to apply a Mathews Balancing Test; failed to analyze First Amendment substantive rights of intimate and expressive close family parent-child speech, association, and worship; or failed to evaluate this discretion under First Amendment, censorship, licensing, and unbridled discretion standards.
PARENTHOOD DEFINES RESPONDENT’S IDENTITY
JN-37: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that RESPONDENT made an intimate, private, and constitutionally protected choice to become a parent.
JN-38: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that being a parent is a massive element to RESPONDENT’S personal identity.
JN-39: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that the intimacy of daily activity with RESPONDENT’S children is essential to RESPONDENT’S identity.
31

JN-40: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that guiding and directing RESPONDENT’S children into developing the children’s own concept of personhood and individuality is an essential element of RESPONDENT’S identity.
JN-41: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice that the removal of custody, possession, or parental authority by the stat is an invasion of RESPONDENT’S personal identity and privacy.
OBJECTIONS
OBJ-34: RESPONDENT objects to this Court invading RESPONDENT’S personal privacy by limiting RESPONDENT’S custody of RESPONDENT’S children, by limiting RESPONDENT’S possession of RESPONDENT’S children, or by limiting RESPONDENT’S parental authority over RESPONDENT’S children except where the Court has demonstrated that its orders survive strict scrutiny and where the Court has demonstrated that its orders are the
least restrictive means available to it.30
CONCLUSION
It is well-established that the constitution applies in this case, that the rights at issue in these proceedings include First Amendment rights, that the rights are individual and independent of marriage or of divorce, that the rights are fundamental, that the state actor acting under the color of state law bears the burden of proof before infringing these rights, that a trial judge’s
30Planned Parenthood of Southeaster Pa. v. Casey, 505 US 833, 851, 929 (Supreme Court 1992), (Our precedents
“have respected the private realm of family life which the state cannot enter.” ... These matters, involving the most intimate and personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal dignity and autonomy, are central to liberty protected by the Fourteenth amendment. At the heart of liberty is the right to define one’s own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life. Beliefs about these matters could not define the attributes of personhood were they formed under compulsion of the State... the Court has held that limitations on the right of privacy are permissible only if they survive “strict” constitutional scrutiny.)
 32

viewpoint regarding a child’s best interest is NOT compelling, that the constitution demands that parents be presumed to be acting their child’s best interest, that parental disputes regarding matters of conscience in childrearing are nonjusticiable disputes, and that the sole duty of this court is to determine the rights of litigants and to protect those rights.
JN-42: RESPONDENT asks this Court to take judicial notice of these well-established constitutional rights and to exercise its non-discretionary duty to protect these rights in these proceedings regardless of this Court’s desire to act in the interests of a third party child, regardless of this Court’s strongly held personal beliefs regarding child-rearing, and regardless of this Court’s viewpoints regarding the relative strength or weaknesses of either parent’s exercise of constitutionally protected, private, parental-decision-making rights.
RESPONDENT recognizes that the actions will leave the Court feeling as if it lacks guidance on how to proceed. However, RESPONDENT encourages the Court to look to the Constitution, to the Courts extensive First Amendment precedent, and to the Court’s extensive family law precedent where the Court has always upheld constitutional rights in the context of the case that was presented to them.
The context of this case is one of Constitutional right taking precedent over viewpoint discrimination. This Court simply cannot go wrong by studiously protecting the rights of each fit parent and trusting those fit parents to make best interest value choices, even if those parents make different choices than the Court would make. If those parents are acting lawfully, i.e. are fit, then this Court performs its constitutional duty to the child where it protects the rights of each fit parent to be a parent. Whether God or mere chance placed this child under the parental supervision of these two parents, it is not for a judge to alter absent compelling justification.
33

The judicial burden is to justly and fairly apply the substantive law giving supremacy to the supreme law of the land. The judicial burden is not to be a super-parent or to own a super- parent’s feelings of guilt or moral responsibility to a child. A judge’s moral burden in a child custody legal proceeding between fit parents is vindicated when the judge applies the substantive law justly and fairly to protect the rights of the parents.
PRAYER
RESPONDENT, [NAME], prays that this motion in all things be granted. RESPONDENT prays that RESPONDENT be afforded the full substantive, procedural, and equal protection of RESPONDENT’S and RESPONDENT’S children’s fundamental rights, that the court affirmatively determine what process is due given the unique conditions in this case and apply the procedural protections necessary to protect substantive rights implicated in any proceeding arising from this or any related action and that the court act on this motion without delay.
RESPONDENT prays that all declaratory relief be granted, that judicial notice be taken, and that objections be entered into the record as requested and for all further relief under the law.
Respectfully Submitted by:
[NAME] Pro Se [ADDRESS]
34

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing pleading or document has been served upon all parties and attorneys of record on May XX, 2020 by E-File Manager on the following parties, in accordance with the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure and addressed as follows:
Petitioner: Petitioner’s address:
Attorney for Petitioner: Attorney’s address:
XXXXXX XXXXXX STREET ADDRESS
CITY, STATE, ZIP CODE Email:
Phone:
XXXXXX XXXXXX STREET ADDRESS CITY, STATE, ZIP CODE Email:
Phone:
Type of Service: eFileTXCourts.gov (EFSP) or, USPS, First Class Service
35
